Improvements over actions available on the layer for QFieldCloud (#508)
opengisch/QField-docs: documentation/reference/qfieldcloud/projects.en.md

tx_slug: documentation_reference_qfieldcloud_projects
---

Projects are the main data containers on QField and QFieldCloud.
Users can create any number of projects.
Projects must contain a single `.qgs`/`.qgz` QGIS file, and may in addition contain any combination of geospatial files -- GeoPackages, Shapefiles, TIFs -- or data files such as photos, PDFs etc.
Files cannot be shared between projects, unless [localized layers](../../how-to/outside-layers.md) are used.

QFieldCloud projects have a name and an owner.
The owner of a project is a QFieldCloud user or an organization.
No two projects can use the same pair `owner_name` and `project_name`.

Projects can be marked as either public or private.
Private projects are accessible only to users added to a project as project collaborators.
Public projects are visible to, and can be downloaded by, any QFieldCloud user.

## Creating a project

A project can be created in multiple ways:
- via QFieldCloud web interface;
- via QFieldSync in QGIS;
- via QFieldCloud-SDK;

## Files

> Files are the skeleton on which QFieldCloud project works.

Reviewer: Files are the skeleton on which QFieldCloud projects work.

Author: ```suggestion
Files are the skeleton on which QFieldCloud projects work.
```

│   ├── bees-20220404121212.jpg
│   ├── bees-20220405040506.jpg
│   └── fields-20220405040607.jpg
├── project.qgs
├── project_attachments.zip
└── project.qml
```

> The file in a QGIS project can be in one of the following groups by their purpose:

Reviewer: The files in a QFieldCloud project can be in one of the following groups by their purpose:
